
<p align="center"><a href="https://github.com/lily-pogodina/Data-Analyst-Portfolio-Ru/tree/main/Video_game_sales_study_ru"><b>Русская версия</b></a></p>


## Analysis of Computer Game Sales Data for an Online Store
<p align="center"><a href="https://github.com/lily-pogodina/Data-Analyst-Portfolio-En/blob/main/Video_game_sales_study_en/Video_game_sales_study_en.ipynb"><b>View project</b></a></p>



We have a dataset containing historical data up to the present (December 2016) on game sales, user and expert ratings, genres and platforms (e.g. Xbox or PlayStation). The data was collected from open sources. \
In the study, we studied the main parameters, calculated the total sales for each game, and identified patterns that determine the success of the game. This will allow you to bet on a potentially popular product and plan advertising campaigns.

We also tested a number of hypotheses that can help the business grow:
* Are the average user ratings of the Xbox One and PC platforms the same?
* Are the average user ratings of the Action and Sports genres different?

---
**`Exploratory analysis`**

* The 2000s were the most productive years in terms of the number of games released, followed by 2008 and 2009. After a sharp decline in 2012, the number of games released remains at about the same level.
* The average active life of a gaming platform is about 10 years. Sales usually peak in the 4th to 6th year of the platform's existence. All platforms studied are currently experiencing a decline in sales of new games, and the PS2, DS, and PS have not released any new releases in recent years.
* For our study, we used data for the past five years (from 2012 to 2016).
* We studied the sales of gaming platforms for the current period and singled out the PS4 and XOne as potentially profitable.
* Over the past five years, on average, the greatest revenue from global sales was generated by games for the Xbox 360 platform. Each platform has its own hits that sell significantly better than other games on this platform.
* We found a weak correlation between critic scores and sales, and found that there was no clear correlation between user scores and sales. These relationships were tested for both the popular PS4 platform and data from five other profitable platforms.
* The most profitable genres were Shooter, Sports, and Platform, while the least profitable was Adventure.

**`User profile for each region`**

We have studied the dependence of platform and genre popularity on the market, and also specified the shares of games by ESRB rating for each market.

* In Japan, consoles from Japanese companies (Nintendo and PlayStation) and RPG games are popular, and the most common rating is "E".
* The leading platform in Europe is the PS4 (which we have identified as potentially profitable). Action and Shooter games are preferred here, and the most common rating is M.
* The most popular platform in North America is the X360 (which we have also selected as potentially profitable). Action and Shooter games are also preferred here, and the most common rating is M.

In general, there is a noticeable similarity between the North American and European markets.


**`Hypotheses testing and following conclusions`**

* **1 Average user ratings for the Xbox One and PC platforms are the same** — There is reason to believe that the average user ratings for the Xbox One and PC platforms are the same

* **2 Average user ratings for the Action and Sports genres are different.** — There is reason to believe that the average user ratings for the Action and Sports genres are different.

**`Recommendations`**

So, a potentially successful product depends on the market where the advertising campaign is planned:

* In Europe and North America, you can choose Shooter and Action games for the PS4 platform in Europe and X360 in North America. Preference should be given to games with an M rating.

* Japan is characterized by consoles from Japanese companies (you can consider the increasingly popular PS4 or pay attention to the new Nintendo Switch platform as a potential prospect in Japan), as well as RPG games. In this market, you can ignore the ESRB rating, since most games on the market do not have one. Games with an "E" rating also sell well.

* Although the study showed no relationship between user ratings and sales and a weak relationship between critic ratings and sales, it is advisable to avoid games with below average ratings.

---
**`Tools`**

* Python
  * pandas
  * matplotlib 
  * seaborn
  * preprocessing
  * exploratory analysis
  * statistical analysis
  * visualization

<p align="center"><a href="https://github.com/lily-pogodina/Data-Analyst-Portfolio-En"><b>Table of contents</b></a></p>
